Welcome back to Movie Recaps. Today I will show
you a drama, crime film from 2015, titled Loving
Pablo. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
The movie starts by telling us this is based on
real, if perhaps exaggerated events. Our narrator
is famous journalist and television presenter
Virginia Vallejo, who currently is on a plane,
leaving her country because of a man in 1993.
A DEA agent called Shepard is there
as well. When they make it to the USA,
Virginia is taken to a hotel and once she gets in
her room, Shepard tells her she'll be meeting with
officials from the Justice Department and told the
corresponding procedures, another agent tells her
she isn't allowed to leave the room or communicate
with anyone for the sake of her own safety.
Virginia is having a headache so she asks for
an aspirin, but Shepard tells her hotels can
offer it because it's considered a drug. This
makes her laugh and think Pablo would've laughed
too before he would've had them all killed.
The flashbacks start then, so we can see how
all this started. The year is 1981, the country is
Colombia. We meet Pablo Escobar while he's riding
his bike with some friends and employees through
an open field. One of the men crashes his bike
against a horse, leaving the animal hurt on the
ground. When everyone stops to see what happened,
they take out their guns and decide to shoot
the horse to take it out of its misery.
Moments later they return to Pablo's mansion,
where he is chatting with his wife Victoria
about the party they are hosting later at night
and all the important people that will be coming.
Victoria can't stop looking through the window
to watch her son in the pool and a man sitting
nearby - she tells Pablo she doesn't like this,
that business and family should stay separate.
So Pablo goes out to do something about it. He
throws a coin in the pool to distract his son
then talks business with the other man: he's
given the mission of destroying some files
that connect Pablo to the murder of two
dozen agents. The man gets permission to
kill anyone that needs to be killed and a high
amount of money to cover expenses and weapons.
A few hours later, a younger Virginia
is arriving at Pablo's ranch by plane.
They've all heard about Pablo but never met
him, he's just the top name on the list of
the "new rich". Virginia is freaking out because
she sees people with weapons waiting for them,
thinking she's going to be kidnapped. When she
gets out of the plane, Pablo explains the land
is a zoo and the weapons are for the animals,
Virginia complains to him thinking he's a servant.
They take the jeeps to go to the house and
on the way, Pablo shows them the animals.
Later at night, the party is in full swing.
Virginia is surprised to learn the man from
before is the actual Pablo, and she mentions the
speculation that is going around about his past,
but Pablo doesn't want to talk about it. He
explains the party is to celebrate the founding
of his society, which is building houses for
the poor. She asks where the money comes from,
he avoids the question. What she didn't know back
then it's that what they were truly celebrating
was the founding of the Medellín cartel.
A couple of days later, Pablo takes Virginia
to visit the slums to show her all the houses
he's building. Most kids of the area are named
Pablo after him. Virginia interviews Pablo
for her show, and when he gives a heartfelt
speech about making Colombia the country they
dream about, Virginia decides that she doesn't
care how Pablo makes his money, only how he uses
it. Later on, the two of them go out for dinner.
Virginia comments she's married but not by
choice, her husband won't sign the divorce
papers. Because Pablo doesn't like hanging out
with married women, he says he'll fix it for her.
We cut to Virginia's husband being visited at
his job by Pablo's men to threaten him. Next we
jump to Virginia's show, where she's informed
her husband has finally signed the papers.
To celebrate her freedom, Pablo takes Virginia
to a private island, where they make love before
attending a congress of drug traffickers.
Virginia is introduced to all of Pablo's
associates and shown off as a trophy, but she's
never felt safer. That night, the men divide the
USA among them for their narco-business.
A year later, we see how the drug arrives
in the states. On the highway, there's a
truck that suddenly turns to block the way,
and its drivers threaten any
complaining car drivers with their guns.
Now that the road is empty, a plane uses it to
land and release its cargo. Lots of men jump off
their cars to pick it up while Virginia tells us
how a kilo will be cut here to make double profit.
Now the drug has entered the country, President
Donald Regan must speak to the nation about the
subject. Shepard is in the White House
too, overseeing the transmission, when
he's approached by an American and a Colombian
representative that tell him that since most
of the drug is coming from Colombia, they're
working to reactivate the Extradition Treaty:
that would allow Colombia to catch the narcos but
the USA gets to try them, because in Colombia,
narcos just pay or threaten the judges.
Shepard accepts to monitor the whole process.
After hearing about this, Pablo and his associates
get together to discuss how it affects them.
The treaty puts them in danger, and they can
hire some lawyers to appeal, but Pablo thinks
this must be fought from the inside. The others
think it's a bad idea to get involved in politics,
but Pablo disagrees: if you enter congress, they
respect you because you're one of them. Besides,
running for office costs a lot of money - it's
not for workers, it's for people like them.
The cartel starts paying off politicians
on both sides then, so no matter who wins,
they win. Their planes carry candidates during
the day and take the drugs to the states at night.
Some months later, we find Victoria talking to
Pablo about this, she thinks he's taking things
too far. He doesn't see his family often
and already has lots of money, she doesn't
understand what else he could want - he replies
he wants respect and his son to be proud of him.
Upset, Victoria rushes to her room, Pablo follows
her and asks her if she wouldn't want to be the
first lady - she replies she wants to be the
only one and demands him to break things up
with Virginia. He promises her it's over, but
days later, he's sleeping with Virginia again.
Pablo continues to work on his
political campaign with Virginia's help,
gaining many followers with his speeches. On
the day of the election, everybody gets together
to watch the results and it's confirmed
Pablo wins as representative of Medellín.
It's July 1982 when Pablo goes to the House
of Representatives for the first time,
and while he isn't stopped from entering for being
a trafficker, he is stopped for not wearing a tie.
He borrows one from the journalists
that are dying to help him.
We then cut to see Pablo filling Virginia's bag
with money. She thinks he wants her to smuggle it,
but he says it's actually a gift and she can
spend it all. Time passes and it's now 1983,
Virginia has been using the money to get expensive
accommodations, jewelry and clothes. Meanwhile,
Pablo is teaching his son how to make and cut
the drug, but also to never take it himself.
Back to Virginia, she's arriving at her hotel
when Shepard approaches her and asks her to
join him for a drink. He asks her how Pablo
makes his money, Virginia points out the DEA
doesn't have any authority to interfere
in Colombian politics. Shepard says his
country is worried about all the drug that's
getting in, but Virginia thinks that's a lie:
what worries them is the money going out, that's
why they don't care about the Italian mafia,
they keep their money in the USA. Shepard
wonders what Pablo said when Virginia told
him she would be seeing, Virginia replies he
said she should make sure the USA pays the bill.
Months later, Virginia arrives at the
Medellín airport, but Pablo isn't there
to pick her up because he was called to
a special Congress session in Bogotá:
they want to revoke his appointment. We cut to
the Congress then, where a minister is talking
about Pablo's presence among them being
a disgrace because of his shady business.
Pablo replies by saying the minister should
present evidence not only of his accusations,
but also of where the money for his own campaign
comes from. He tells the president he can prove
many of these ministers received shady money for
their campaigns, but then the minister takes over
and makes fun of him in front of everyone. Later
at night, Victoria begs Pablo to resign before
things get worst and tells him she's pregnant.
She makes him promise their baby won't suffer,
but they're interrupted by an urgent phone call:
Pablo's past has reached the news. He will pay 500
pesos for every newspaper taken from the streets
before people see them. We see men following the
newspaper delivery trucks and picking up
everything they drop while Virginia tells
us the details: the published story backs up the
minister's claims and connects Pablo to the murder
of two policemen in his youth. The man that had
been sent to erase this evidence is tortured and
killed for failing. Days later, the Cartel gets
together to discuss what to do with this minister:
Pablo wants to assassinate him, and everybody
should put money for it so they're all guilty.
Some of his associates don't like this idea,
but he convinces them there's no other choice.
The next day, Pablo is having dinner with Virginia
when he gifts her a box to celebrate things are
about to change, he wants her to carry this
gift with her all the time. Virginia opens it
and is distressed to find a gun inside, which she
doesn't want. Pablo tells her things are about to
get very complicated and to make her understand,
he starts explaining in detail how she would be
raped and tortured if they captured her, and
if she takes the gun, she can either protect
herself from her attackers or shoot herself before
they get to her. This greatly upsets Virginia,
who is now crying and asks Pablo to take her home.
We then cut to Pablo visiting a camp of sicarios
where youngsters from the slums are trained to
kill. He hires two of them, who go to the streets
on their bike and approach the minister's car from
behind. They shoot him when they get close enough,
then quickly drive away. Virginia's show is
interrupted so she can tell the nation about
the news of the minister's death. While Victoria
watches the show and cries, Virginia explains
the president activates the extradition agreement
and Pablo decides to take his business to Panamá.
It is now 1984. In Panamá, the Cartel has
a meeting with an ex-president sent by the
government to negotiate. Pablo accepts to pay
taxes and take some money to the USA in exchange
for not being extradited to another country. The
ex-president tells him he can't remove the treaty
without talking to the Americans, Pablo replies
he better finds a way to do it or there'll be war.
Things get worse from then on: Pablo couldn't keep
his promise and his son is born outside Colombia,
the editor that published his past gets killed
and Virginia has started to get threats on the
phone and being followed. She returns home
one night to find Pablo there, who tells her
this isn't his fault and promises things will
be fine. Virginia thinks he's losing his mind
and leaves the room when he tries to kiss her.
The threatening of people becomes a whole genre
for Pablo. He kills a judge by sending a coffin
to his house, then starts handing out guns in
the slums. He'll pay people for every cop they
kill: the higher the rank, the better the money.
Death is everywhere now, officers keep getting
killed by the second, so they decide to strike
back by shooting ten teenagers from the slums for
every murdered cop. The Colombian government ends
up creating a special unit exclusively to deal
with Pablo, so the DEA sends Shepard to check
out the unit's facilities - since the extradition
treaty isn't working, the Americans are coming to
catch him themselves. They install a whole system
to track phone calls and pinpoint Pablo, but the
people from the slums trick them by calling
all at the same time from different locations.
Back to Virginia, we find her at
the tv studio talking to her boss,
who's fired her and replaced her with someone
younger. No matter how many times he denies it,
Virginia is sure this happened because of her
connection to Pablo. She leaves the office
making and scene and threatening her boss by
telling him Pablo will get him. When she's out
of the building, she finds Shepard waiting
for her, he takes her to a bar for a drink.
Virginia tells him getting fire is a good thing
and she has an offer waiting for her in Florida,
she also tries to flirt with him. Shepard turns
her down and calls our her lie: she has no offers,
nobody will hire her now. He offers her protection
in exchange for her helping them find Pablo,
but she stays loyal to him. It's then that
they notice a car spying on them outside,
Shepard runs out with his gun but the
car drives away before he can catch it.
Virginia calls Pablo to tell him what
happened, he says he isn't following her.
Scared and upset, she tries to break up with him,
but he hangs up. We learn then that Pablo has many
teenage girlfriends, young girls handed in by the
parents in exchange of money. It takes only one of
them to talk for the search bloc to find him. Some
helicopters arrive at Pablo's ranch and open fire,
Pablo's men shoot back and even free some birds
that fly against one of the helicopters and make
it crash. Pablo escapes and becomes unreachable,
and his associates are getting worried about
the business ending, but they start getting
killed as well. Pablo can only stay on the run.
In 1989, he calls a radio station, declaring full
war on the government and threatening to blow up
the station to prove it's him. Meanwhile, Virginia
is in Miami doing an interview on tv. When later
she goes to the airport, the FBI approaches her
and asks her for her passport before she hears
some upsetting news: the Bogotá airport has been
closed because a plane has exploded in mid-flight.
After all these bombs, the country asks the
government to give Pablo hell. But after even
more bombs, the people ask the government to
give Pablo what he wants. At the US embassy,
Shepard gets a clue from another agent by looking
at the names of the passengers that survived
the plane bombing. Shepard goes to talk to the
ambassador to ask permission to go after Pablo,
but Pablo's lawyer is already there,
arranging the details of his surrender.
In 1991, the extradition treaty is revoked, and
Pablo hands himself to the authorities with the
condition he gets to choose his own jail. They
build a special building on his own land, but
it's nothing like an actual jail: there are all
kinds of fancy comforts including a soccer field,
he continues to work his business with his
associates there, he has parties with drinks
and women, and on Sundays, he has lunch with his
family. It's during one of these lunches that
his daughter tells him her mom says he can't
leave and she cries all time. Feeling defied,
Pablo picks up his daughter and tells her he'll
take her out for ice-cream. The first guards he
encounters open the doors for him out of fear,
but when he makes it outside, the gate guards
turn their weapons on him. Pablo cries as Victoria
shows up to stop him and take her daughter back.
Meanwhile, Virginia is having trouble: all media
has banned her and her advertising contracts have
been canceled, so she has to sell her home to
pay her debts. She rents an apartment where the
first lady is living, hoping her guards will keep
her safe too. With a new phone number, she gets a
break from the phone threats, but not for long.
She ends up visiting Pablo at his "jail" to ask
him if she can feel safe and to tell everyone
they aren't together anymore to stop the threat.
Since it's his fault that her career is over,
she also asks for money to move to Europe. When
Pablo refuses, she threatens him with possibly
going to the police to tell them what she knows,
but he scares her into taking her words back.
In 1992, Pablo meets with two of his associates,
who owe him money. Since they refuse to pay,
Pablo gets them killed, and these murders reach
the media, making the government an accomplice.
It's decided to transfer Pablo to military prison,
but when the officers make it to his prison,
he's already gone - the switch to the electric
fence was in his room. In a little house
in the middle of nowhere, Pablo hides.
His men tell him people are turning on them
because he's lost credibility: if he killed
his associates, they think he could kill anyone.
Pablo doesn't think it was a mistake, but it was.
Pablo's associates cooperate with the government
in exchange for having their records clean.
Dozens of narcos ready to fight him are released
and together with government officers, they start
a lethal hunting party. They start killing any
person who has ever associated themselves with
Pablo and they always leave a message with the
bodies that says "for working for Pablo Escobar".
This puts Virginia in danger too: one
afternoon, when she's at a pawn shop
trying to sell her jewelry, the hunting
party attacks, and it's only thanks to
the window being bullet-proof that she survives.
Meanwhile, Pablo is hiding in a small apartment
with his family. While chatting to his daughter,
he notices his wife is crying: turns out their
kid won't be allowed to be in a school show
because the other parents don't want her there,
they're afraid Pablo will blow up the school.
Pablo accepts things are getting too dangerous
for them there, so he tells Victoria to take
the kids and fly out of the country so he can
take care of everything. In the meantime, Virginia
goes see Shepard at the embassy, finally willing
to cooperate. She tells him Pablo's weakness is
his family and that they shouldn't be allowed
to leave the country, otherwise Pablo will
start destroying everything when they're gone.
Shepard takes this information to his boss, who
says they can't do this because of the deal.
But Shepard explains his plan to use the family
as bait and finally capture Pablo when he tries
to contact them, so his boss accepts to
break the deal and go with that idea.
It is now 1993. Pablo's family is denied
entrance to Germany and sent back to Colombia,
the DEA takes over them and hides them in an
apartment building where they've set up operations
to track incoming calls. Pablo learns about this
by watching the news and calls his family to check
on them. He's promising he will rescue them
when he realizes they're being listened on,
so he starts insulting and threatening the
officers. Victoria asks him not to call again,
but he ignores her as he hangs up.
The bait is too powerful though,
so moments later, Pablo is calling them
again. The officers manage to pinpoint his
location and go after him while he talks to
his kids, first he chats with his daughter,
then he asks for his son so he can teach him
what to tell the press when all this is over.
He leans against the window while doing so, giving
the cops a full view of where he's staying at.
The cops break in while he's still on the phone.
Pablo hears them but doesn't even hang up before
he and his partner are moving to the window, guns
ready. They jump out of it when the door explodes,
but it's too late: they're shot and killed
right there on the roof, and his son hears it
all through the phone. In the other room, the DEA
agents are celebrating, but Virginia looks sad.
Shepard comes by to pick her up and take her
to a safe place, and the movie ends with a
flashback to her conversation about the
terms of her cooperation with the police.
She says she loved Pablo, but hated Escobar, so
she accepts to talk to a federal judge - Pablo
wanted her to tell his story after
all. He just never specified to whom.